typically a part of a company's CRM system, 
is a system that automatically records all the stages in a sales process.
 SFA includes a contact management system which tracks all contact that has been made with a given customer,
 the purpose of the contact, and any follow up that may be needed. 
This ensures that sales efforts are not duplicated, 
reducing the risk of irritating customers. 
SFA also includes a sales lead tracking system, which lists potential customers through paid phone lists, 
or customers of related products. Other elements of an SFA system can include sales forecasting, 
order management and product knowledge.



 Standard Objects: The objects provided by salesforce.com is called standard objects.
 Examples of standard objects are accounts, contacts, 
opportunities, Leads, products, campaigns, cases, users, contracts, Report, and dashboards, etc.

Custom Object: The objects created by us are called custom objects.
 Custom objects store information that is unique and important to your 
organization. Custom objects are the heart of any application. 
Custom objects provide a structure for sharing data.


Custom objects have properties such as
Custom fields.
Relationship to other objects.
Page Layouts.
A custom user interface tab

Creating Salesforce Custom Object

To create custom object go to 
Setup -> Build-> Create -> Objects ->
Click on new custom object  button and enter label name, plural label and object name.

And also enter Record Name according to the data type. 
There are two data types available to create record name, those are

TEXT.
Auto Number.
And also we have the following optional features while creating an object.

Allow reports: If we check this check box, then only these objects are available to create reports.
Allow Activities: If we check this check box, then we can create activities on this object.
Track Field History: If we check this check box then only we are to track fields.
 We can track up to 20 fields for a single object.

creating a custom field

A field is like a custom Database column.
 Object field Store the data for our records.
 Salesforce by default provide few fields with salesforce standard objects those are called standard fields. 
We cannot delete salesforce standard field. If we want we can change label name. 
The field created by us are called Custom field. We can delete a custom field in Salesforce.


object to another object relationship
The platform supports following relationship types

Master-Detail relationship
Lookup relationship
Many-to-Many relationship.

Master-Detail (1:n)
A parent-child relationship in which the master object controls certain behaviors of the detail object.

When a record of the master object is deleted, its related detail records are also deleted.	
The detail record inherits the sharing and security settings of its master record.
The master-detail relationship field is required on the page layout of the detail record.

You can define master-detail relationships between custom objects or between a custom object 
and a standard object. However, the standard object cannot be on the detail side of a relationship 
with a custom object. In addition, you cannot create a master-detail relationship in which the User 
or Lead objects are the master.


This type of relationship links two objects together but has no effect on deletion or security. Unlike master-detail fields, lookup fields are not automatically required. When you define a lookup relationship, data from one object can appear as a custom related list on page layouts for the other object. See the Salesforce online help for details.

Child row not automatically deleted when a parent row is deleted
No inherited sharing.
25 lookup relation relationships allowed per object.
Lookup field on child not necessarily required. 
Many-to-Many

You can use master-detail relationships to model many-to-many relationships between any two objects.
 A many-to-many relationship allows each record of one object to be linked to multiple records from 
another object and vice versa.

To create a many-to-many relationship, simply create a custom junction object with two master-detail
 relationship fields, each linking to the objects you want to relate.


How many relationships included in SFDC & What are they? 

We are having three types of relationships, they are

Lookup Relationship
Master-Detail Relationship
Many-to-Many relationship 


--> What is a “Lookup Relationship”?

Up to 25 allowed for object
Parent is not a required field.
No impact on security and access.
No impact on deletion.
Can be multiple layers deep.
A Lookup field is not required.



--> What is “Master-Detail Relationship”?

Master-Detail relationship is the Parent-child relationship.
 In which Master represents Parent and detail represents Child. 
If Parent is deleted then Child also gets deleted. 
Roll-up summary fields can only be created on Master records which will calculate the SUM, AVG,
 MIN of the Child records.

Up to 2 allowed to object.
Parent field on a child is required.
Access to parent determines access to children.
Deleting parent automatically deletes child.
A child of one master-detail relationship cannot be the parent of another.
Lookup field on page layout is required.


-->Does an object can have both relationships (Lookup Relationship & Master Detail Relationship) at a time?

Yes, single object can have both relationships at a time.

-->What is a “Self Relationship”?

A self Relationship is a lookup relationship to the same object.

Suppose let’s take an object “Merchandise”. Here we can create relationship 
in between the Merchandise to Merchandise (same object) object. That is called “Self Relationship”.

-->What is “Many to Many Relationships”?

Allow for the relationship of two objects in a many-to-many fashion.

How we achieve the “Many-to-Many Relationship”?

By using Junction Object we can achieve this relationship,
 here junction object is having Master- Detail Relationship with different objects
 (Ex.Students & Courses).
 Using this Master to Detail Relationship, we can create the Many-to-Many Relationship in between the objects.

--> What are the main things need to consider in the “Master-Detail Relationship”?

Record level access is determined by the parent,

-->Field dependencies
Field dependency means, controlling a fields value based on the other field.
 For example, there are two fields called Country & State.
 I want to display only states related specific selected country when I select country. 

-->Validation rules
Validation rules in salesforce contains a formula or expressions that evaluates the data in one or more  fields
 in a record to meet the standards and returns a vale “True” or “False”.
 Validation rules displays error message to the user when the Condition is “False”.
Mandatory on child for reference of parent, cascade delete (if you delete the parent, it can cascade delete the child).

here are five types of Rules in salesforce and the priority of each rule is according to their order.
 Salesforce processes rules in the following order.

Validation Rules.
Assignment Rules.
Auto-response Rules.
Workflow Rules.


Escalation Rules.
What are the main things need to consider in “Lookup Relationship”?

Loosely coupled, not going to have all the above rules which are existed in master detail relationship.

Self-relationship is always lookup to self-relation object type. In many to many we actually create a junction object in the middle, it does lookup for the bound objects that are ultimately being bounded in a many to many way.

Can we convert the lookup relationship to Master Detail relationship?

Yes, We can convert the lookup relationship to master detail relationship only if all the existing record has valid lookup field values.

Can we create Master Detail relationship on existing records?

No. first we have to create the lookup relationship then populate the value on all existing record and then convert it.

Interview 

for validation rules
https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=fields_useful_field_validation_formulas.htm&type=5


--->Page Layout

The organization of fields, custom links, and related lists on an object detail or edit page.
Used to organize UI pages for your users:

Which fields, related lists, and Custom links a user’s sees.
Field properties – visible, read-only and required.
Page section customizations.
NOTE: Establish unique layouts for different business scenarios.

-->record types
Record Types

Record types allow you to associate different business processes and
 subset of pick list value to different users based on their user profile.

They are used to drive which page layouts users see when viewing records, based on their user profile.

Benefits of record types:

 Tailors user interaction experience to specific business needs.

Allows for easier administration as there are fewer fields to maintain.

Page Layout:
– How detail and edit pages are organized
– Page section customizations
– Which fields, related lists, and Custom Links a users sees
– Field properties – visible, read-only and required
Record Types:
– Allows you to define different sets of picklist values for both standard and custom picklists
– Record Types help you implement your custom business processes


When are the Record types used?

Record Types are used to assign the different Page layouts to different users based on their profiles. 
And to enable different sets of Standard/Custom Picklist values for two different users using the same page
 layout.

search layout
By using searchlayouts, we can customize which Sobject fields display for users in search results,
 look up dialogs, and the lists on custom tab home pages. 
We can also specify a different set of fields to show in each searchlayout. 
The settings apply to all users in your organization.
 And also we can specify which buttons to display in custom list views.

opportunity split
Opportunity Splits allow you to allocate credits to multiple team members for an opportunity.

For example two members working on an opportunity, 
If you want to split credits of closed – won opportunity 
credits to both then we can uses opportunity splits.

here are two types of opportunity splits those are Revenue Splits    and overlay splits

Revenue Splits: This type of splits allows you to allocate credits to team members/salesreps who are directly responsible for an opportunity.
 Use splits that total 100% of the opportunity amount.
Overlay Splits: This type of splits allows you to credit supporting (not directly responsible) team members,
 use splits that can total any percentage of the opportunity amount, including percentages over 100%.

To enable opportunity teams follow below instructions.

Setup -> Build -> Customize -> Opportunity Team -> click on settings ->enable team selling and save.
 See the below screen for reference.

To enable opportunity splits follow below instructions.

Setup -> Build -> Customize -> Opportunity Team -> click on Opportunity Split and 
click on set up opportunity splits. See the below screen for reference.


Salesforce approval process is an automated process and your organization can use to approve records in Salesforce,
 An approval process is combination of steps for a record to be approved and person has to approve it each step.
A step can apply to all the records to that object or just record that meets the certain criteria.
 An approval process also specifies the actions to take when a record is approved, rejected, recalled, or first submitted for approval.

Simple or multi-step approval processes to automate and enforce the approval of virtually anything in your company.

---->Approval process
https://www.salesforcetutorial.com/salesforce-approval-process/


---->workflow management
https://www.salesforcetutorial.com/salesforce-workflow-automation-workflow-management/

--->Importing accounts or contacts
https://www.salesforcetutorial.com/import-accountscontacts/










